Initial, internal review of RFC to be submitted to o3de/sig-simulation (#1)
RobotecAI/sig-simulation: rfcs/RFC Simulation Interfaces.md

Reviewer: Convention seems as follows. Additionally, I would consider slightly adjusting the title.

"RFC Feature - Simulation Interfaces Integration"

Although there is no single way to prepare for submitting an RFC, it is generally a good idea to pursue feedback from other project developers beforehand, to ascertain that the RFC may be desirable; having a consistent impact on the project requires concerted effort toward consensus-building.

The most common preparations for writing and submitting an RFC include talking the idea over on our Discord server, discussing the topic on our GitHub RFCs discussions page, and occasionally posting "pre-RFCs" on the GitHub RFCs discussion page. You may file issues in the RFCs repo for discussion, but these are not actively looked at by the teams.

As a rule of thumb, receiving encouraging feedback from long-standing project developers, and particularly members of the relevant sub-team is a good indication that the RFC is worth pursuing. -->

### Summary:
<!-- Single paragraph explanation of the feature -->

> There is an effort at [ros-simulation/simulation_interfaces](https://github.com/ros-simulation/simulation_interfaces/pull/1) to standardize simulation interfaces existing robotics simulators in [ROS 2](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/index.html).

Reviewer: I would rather consider addressing proposed feature here, and refer to simulation interfaces proposal. Something like:
```suggestion
This RFC is a follow-up to an effort at [ros-simulation/simulation_interfaces](https://github.com/ros-simulation/simulation_interfaces/pull/1) to standardize simulation interfaces existing robotics simulators in [ROS 2](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/index.html). Current implementation of similar interfaces is limited to ROS 2 Spawner Component, that utilizes gazebo messages for ROS 2 communication. Proposed approach includes three new Components that will fulfill the design presented at [ros-simulation/simulation_interfaces](https://github.com/ros-simulation/simulation_interfaces/pull/1), and that are planned to be developed alongside updates to simulation interfaces. Backward compatibility will be ensured for ROS2SpawnerComponent and ROS2ContactSensor - they will be available through CMake configuration.
```

The feature is an API for handling number of ROS 2 [services](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Services/Understanding-ROS2-Services.html) and [actions](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Actions/Understanding-ROS2-Actions.html).

There is a terminology that was created in [RFC-410](https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/rep/issues/410) in [ros-infrastructure/rep](https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/rep):

|Term             |    Description                                                                                      |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Spawnable        | Robot or other object that can be spawned in simulation runtime.
|Entity           | Spawned spawnable, it has a unique name.
|Bound            | A region that is defined by an axis-aligned box shape, convex hull, or a sphere.
|NamedPose        | SE3 (translation and rotation) transform with a unique name
|Tag              | A string that allows filtering entities and named poses

> The implementation will be split into three (or more system components):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation will be split into three (or more) system components:
```

Reviewer: Regarding the names below - we claim decoupling feature from its ROS 2 interface, so I assume that will not use "ROS 2" in names of feature parts. We can consider naming these "Entities manager", etc.

- ROS 2 Entities manager \
 It will be responsible for the lifetime of spawned objects, it will cache initial positions.
- ROS 2 Named poses manager \
 It will be responsible for aggregating information in the Named Pose Game Component.

> - ROS 2 Simulator manager \

Reviewer: `Simulator interface` may be another name that we may consider here. I assume that "manager" may stay for consistency with other components. On the other hand, ROS 2 Simulator manager/interface will be using two other components (controlling simulation), what will not take place the other way around.

 It will be responsible for modifying the global state of the simulation (e.g., pausing, reloading).

We will decouple the implementation of those managers from the ROS 2 service.
Every manager will need to expose public methods that will be callable both from C++ and ROS 2.

> The purpose of that approach is to enable testability without the need for a ROS domain. 

Reviewer 2: Should all system components land in the ROS 2 Gem? As a downside of the RFC you mentioned the increase of the ROS 2 codebase. Shouldn't we start thinking about splitting the Gem into smaller pieces? 
- ROS 2 - gem for the node and base sensor component to inherit from
- RobotImporter - gem for importing URDF/SDF and possibly more
- ROS 2 Sensors - gem with basic implementation of all sensors
etc.

This implementation might be the first one to think about it as you mention decoupling c++ and ROS 2 service interfaces.

Reviewer: Regarding this topic, we have also considered moving feature implementations (Entity manager, Named pose manager, ...) into separate Gem, and placing their ROS 2 interfaces in ROS 2 Gem. If I remember correctly, this idea was not rejected explicitly, so we may also discuss it here.

Author: Keeping open for discussion. I think it should be a new gem

> The purpose of that approach is to enable testability without the need for a ROS domain. 

Reviewer: Maybe like that?
```suggestion
We will decouple the implementation of those features from their ROS 2 interfaces.
Every manager will need to expose public methods that:
- will be callable from C++,
- will be handled through dedicated ROS 2 interface and exposed as service.
The purpose of that approach is to enable testability without the need for a ROS domain. 
```

# ROS 2 API

> In this section, a detailed plan of the implementation with potential limitations is presented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section presents the detailed plan for implementation, including potential limitation.
```

Reviewer: It may also be worth making here a list, like:
- ROS 2 Entities manager
   - service 1
   - service 2
   - ...
- ROS 2 Named pose manager
   - ...
It may give better overview about the order below.

## GetSimulationFeatures service

The simulator needs to advertise supported features via the ROS 2 service [GetSimulatorFeatures.srv](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/srv/GetSimulatorFeatures.srv)
That service in its response provides the caller with a list of features [SimulatorFeatures.msg](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/msg/SimulatorFeatures.msg)

> In the RFC we are proposing to support the following features:

Reviewer: What about ENTITY_TAGS?

 - SPAWNING
 - DELETING
 - NAMED_POSES
 - POSE_BOUNDS
 - ENTITY_BOUNDS

 - ENTITY_STATE_LISTING
 - ENTITY_STATE_SETTING

 - SIMULATION_RESET
 - SIMULATION_RESET_TIME
 - SIMULATION_RESET_SPAWNED
 - SIMULATION_RESET_STATE

 - SIMULATION_PAUSE

> We do not plan to support the moment:

Reviewer: Maybe it will be better to claim, that these will be supported in the future?

Reviewer 2: Please check if my change in https://github.com/RobotecAI/sig-simulation/pull/2 fixed your issue

 - STEP_SIMULATION_SINGLE
 - STEP_SIMULATION_MULTIPLE
 - STEP_SIMULATION_ACTION

Following formats will be supported for spawning (field `spawn_formats` of [SimulatorFeatures.msg](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/msg/SimulatorFeatures.msg)):
```

> [`.spawnables`]

Reviewer: Is it not like that?
```suggestion
[`.spawnable`]
```

```

**Note** Other formats e.g. `URDF` and `SDF` are supported by ROS 2 Gem, but only in Editor. 
Those tools are not available in the game mode, so spawning `SDF` and `URDF` would require:
 - handling mesh importing in Game Launcher and preparing it to use with Mesh Feature processor,
 - creating materials and texture assets in runtime,
 - PhysX (or other Physics engine) collider mesh cooking with decomposition.

Such a feature would be useful, but it is out of the scope of this RFC.

> The features ` SIMULATION_RESET_STATE, STEP_SIMULATION_SINGLE, STEP_SIMULATION_MULTIPLE, STEP_SIMULATION_ACTION` will be introduced in the next RFC since they require multiple changes in the PhysX gem and AzPhysics API.

Reviewer: Above, SIMULATION_RESET_STATE is stated to be in the scope of this RFC. Both will probably do, however I would opt for approach from here.

Also, regarding next line, I would update the list above to have features sorted as e.g. included, planned for the future, not planned.

Reviewer 2: Please check if my change in https://github.com/RobotecAI/sig-simulation/pull/2 fixed your issue

                                                    # Unrecognized values are listed as such in the result.error_message,
                                                    # but do not hinder success of the response.
                                                    # Sources may include subcategories and be simulator-specific.

---

Result result
Spawnable[] spawnables                              # Spawnable objects with URI and additional information.
```
Definition of individual spawnables [Spawnable.msg](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/msg/Spawnable.msg):
```
# Robot or other object which can be spawned in simulation runtime.

string uri                                # URI which will be accepted by SpawnEntity service.
string description                        # Optional description for the user, e.g. "robot X with sensors A,B,C".
Bounds spawn_bounds                       # Optional spawn area bounds which fully encompass this object.
```

This service advertises available spawnables that can be used in simulation.
We will utilize the asset catalog to find those spawnables. 

> There is a useful API in the Engine to get products assets from the asset catalog:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a useful API in the Engine to get product assets from the asset catalog:
```

```cpp
AZ::Data::AssetCatalogRequests::EnumerateAssets
```

> The asset catalog contains product assets (such as `.spawnables`, `.azmodel`, `.azbuffer`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The asset catalog contains product assets (such as `.spawnable`, `.azmodel`, `.azbuffer`).
```

We will introduce another product asset called `.simulationinfo`. 
This asset will contain necessary data about Prefab that can be spawned or adjusted by Simulation Interfaces.

The `.simulationinfo` product asset will be an XML / JSON file (similar to other product assets like `.physxmaterial`) and will contain at least the following information:

 - a description (as a string),
 - bounds (as a variant of the chosen bound region),
 - list of tags,
 - category,
 - Asset ID of the corresponding prefab.

The `.simulationinfo` will be created by the asset builder that will be registered by ROS 2 Gem.
This asset builder will consume source assets called `SimulationInfo` and eventually corresponding prefabs.

> It will create a `SimulationInfo` product asset in the `Cache` directory.

Reviewer: An additional diagram may also be useful to explain the nature of this process.

The `SimulationInfo` source asset will be a sidecar (a file with the same filename) to a prefab. 
It will contain:

 - a description (as a string),
 - bounds (as a variant of the chosen bound region),
 - list of tags,
 - category.

A simulation expert who wants to create a robot (or other simulation-ready asset) needs:
- design a new prefab using standard O3DE workflow, using all available components,
- save the prefab with a name e.g., `Robots/FooRobot.prefab`

> - create and fill the `SimulationInfo` file as `Robots/FooRobot.SimulationInfo` using a text editor or some tooling in O3DE:

Reviewer 2: Simulation engineers should be able to generate all the data from within O3DE. _some tooling in O3DE_ should be a part of this RFC (it can be implemented later, but it should be described already)

Author: I made here clear that we will use Asset Editor

   * fill description,
   * fill tags,
   * fill category,
   * and hand-fill bounds (e.g., sphere radius),
- export simulation with the export script and [bundle assets](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/packaging/asset-bundler/)

> A ROS 2 user who calls the `GetSpawnables` service against GameLauncher will trigger the following sequence:

Reviewer: Maybe this is more precise?
```suggestion
A simulation interfaces user who calls the `GetSpawnables` service against GameLauncher will trigger the following sequence:
```

- a call to the asset catalog to find all product assets of the type `.simulationinfo`.

> - The `ROS 2 Entity manager` will aggregate found assets and will prepare a response that will contain:

Reviewer: This is rather a minor thing, but upper-/lowercase at the beginning of the sentence is inconsistent in most lists in this document, and may be worth unifying.

Reviewer: I would optionally consider making an additional statement explaining what will happen if any of those data fill not be put by user in SimulationInfo? The most important information in this context is probably whether the product asset will be built or not.

uint8 NAMESPACE_INVALID     = 105       # Namespace does not meet namespace naming standards.
uint8 RESOURCE_PARSE_ERROR  = 106       # Resource file or string failed to parse.
uint8 MISSING_ASSETS        = 107       # At least one of resource assets (such as meshes) was not found.
uint8 UNSUPPORTED_ASSETS    = 108       # At least one of resource assets (such as meshes) is not supported.
uint8 INVALID_POSE          = 109       # initial_pose is invalid, such as when the quaternion is invalid or position
                                        # exceeds simulator world bounds.

Result result
string entity_name                      # Spawned entity full name, guaranteed to be unique in the simulation.
                                        # If allow_renaming is true, it may differ from the request name field.
```

The ROS 2 user who wants to spawn a new object in their simulation has to have a valid URI e.g.,`spawnable://@cache@/robot/foorobot.spawnable`. 

**Note !**
Spawning assets from the file system e.g., `spawnable://home/michalpelka/robots/FooRobot.spawnables` will not be supported.

With that URI `ROS 2 Entity Manager` will find respective Asset Id.

> Next, the [SpawnableEntitiesDefinition](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/152bc0a1851d881fe735adf54ec93e1ad7875b11/Code/Framework/AzFramework/AzFramework/Spawnable/SpawnableEntitiesInterface.h#L334-L333) interface will be utilized to create a spawn ticket and spawn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, the [SpawnableEntitiesDefinition](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/152bc0a1851d881fe735adf54ec93e1ad7875b11/Code/Framework/AzFramework/AzFramework/Spawnable/SpawnableEntitiesInterface.h#L334-L333) interface will be utilized to create a spawn ticket and spawn entity.
```

During spawning the spawned O3DE entities  will be modified:
- change the name of the root entity to that given by the `name` field,
- [Transform Component](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/components/reference/transform/) of the root entity will modified to reflect the value of the `initial_pose` field,
- [ROS2 Frame](https://www.docs.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/components/reference/ros2/core/ros2-frame/) to set correct namespace.
- A component called `SimulationInfoComponent` will be created and attached to the root entity. 

>  That component will be used to cache information in `simulationinfo` to be easily accessible in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 That component will be used to cache information from `simulationinfo` to be easily accessible in the future.
```

> - [TagComponent](https://www.docs.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/components/reference/gameplay/tag/) from LmbrCentral gem at root entity will be created (if not present in prefab).

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we enforce a valid list of tags by keeping `simulationinfo` file matching to a `prefab`?

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/RobotecAI/sig-simulation/pull/2

> - TagComponent will be updated with a list of new tags.

Reviewer 2: I do not fully get what is the source of new tags.

> - TagComponent will be updated with a list of new tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TagComponent will be updated with a list of tags from 'simulationinfo'.
```

`SimulationInfoComponent` will be handling a `SimulationInfoComponentRequestBus`.

> `SimulationInfoComponentRequestBus` will have a unique, string key, which will be the resulting name of spawned entity.
> This bus will allow to aggregate all handling entities, and provide and API to find all spawned entities, get their state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SimulationInfoComponentRequestBus` will have a unique string key that will come from the name of spawned entity.
This approach will result in a centralized aggregation of entities information, and will provide an API to i.a. find all spawned entities get their states.
```

## GetEntities service

> The service allows to discover of spawned entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This service provides an access to a list of all spawned entities.
```

Service definition :  [GetEntities](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/srv/GetEntities.srv )

```
# Get objects in the scene which can be interacted with, e.g. with using SetEntityState.
# You can get further information about entities through GetEntityInfo and GetEntityState services.
# There is also a GetEntitiesStates service if you would like to get state for each entity.

EntityFilters filters                               # Optional filters for the query, including name, category, tags,
                                                    # and overlap filters.

---

Result result
Entity[] entities                                   # All entities matching the filters.
```

where [Entity](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/msg/Entity.msg) is defined:
```
# Entity identified by its unique name. Entities are objects in the simulation such as models and links.
# Each simulator might define what an entity is in a (slightly) different way.

string name                                 # Entity unique name.
```

> We will serve this by calling `SimulationInfoComponentRequestBus` with `AZ::EBusAggregateResults`. 

Reviewer: In this context, 'handle' or 'support' may be a better word than 'serve'.

> With that, we will obtain a AZStd::vector of EntityId, that can be converted to a list of entity names.

Reviewer: Above, environment types were wrapped like that.
```suggestion
With that, we will obtain a 'AZStd::Vector' of 'AZ::EntityId', that can be converted to a list of entity names.
```

```
# Entity current pose, twist and acceleration

std_msgs/Header header                  # Frame and timestamp for pose and twist. Empty frame defaults to world.
geometry_msgs/Pose pose                 # Pose in reference frame, ground truth.
geometry_msgs/Twist twist               # Ground truth linear and angular velocities
                                        # observed in the frame specified by header.frame_id
                                        # See https://github.com/ros2/common_interfaces/pull/240 for conventions.
geometry_msgs/Accel acceleration        # Linear and angular acceleration ground truth, following the same convention.
```

The service handling will be similar to [GetEntities](#GetEntities). 
There will be more calls to :
 - [RigidBodyRequestBus](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/79e1df3990c5554c454d68798a0f3ef94c8ae317/Code/Framework/AzFramework/AzFramework/Physics/RigidBodyBus.h) to find current twist,
 - [TransformComponentRequests](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/42d375dd99b972400f9f26bfec7e3444088f3398/Code/Framework/AzCore/AzCore/Component/TransformBus.h) to find current pose,

>  - [ROS2FrameBus.h](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-extras/blob/development/Gems/ROS2/Code/Include/ROS2/Frame/ROS2FrameBus.h) to find frame id.

Reviewer 2: It is not clear how the tree structure of entities in O3DE is translated into the _object_ that is used in simulation interfaces. Assuming we spawn a robot and we want to check its state - this robot might have multiple `ROS2FrameComponents`, multiple `RigidBodyComponents`, etc. I believe the tool should treat the whole object (robot) as one rigid body.

> **Note !** acceleration is will not be filled, and will not be supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note !** Acceleration is will not be filled, and will not be supported.
```

> #### SetEntityState service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## SetEntityState service
```

|----------------------------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------|------------|
|Simulated PhysX Rigid Body              |                                | supports                 |            |
|Kinematic PhysX Rigid Body              |  supports                      |                          |            |
|TransformComponent  due to parent-child |  supports                      |                          |            |
|TransformComponent (custom calls)       |                                |                          |            |
|PhysX character component               |                                |                          |      ?     |
|PhysX ragdoll                           |                                |                          |      ?     |
|PhysX articulations                     |                                |                          | supports   |

The correct API needs to be chosen to get the expected outcome it can be quite tricky.
Let us investigate moving a `Simulated PhysX Rigid Body'.
We cannot simply call :
```cpp

>  AZ::TransformBus::Event(entityId, &AZ::TransformBus::Events::SetWorldTM, transform);

Reviewer 2: Please see my comment for `GetEntitiesStates service`.  I believe we should encapsulate the information for the whole object (robot) in one message. Hence, we can fully ignore the parent-child relationship and we should only care about the root entity. This might simplify the problem of calling PhysX methods directly. There is no need to support robots that are incorrectly made.

Reviewer: > There is no need to support robots that are incorrectly made

I would follow this idea everywhere in this implementation. We rather have to make some assumptions, or put some requirements on what is supported with this implementation. Fortunately, in most places we do like that.

This can lead to a few problems:
 - ROS2 Gem needs to be heavily reliable on PhysX5 gem to support moving entities with articulations, and characters.
 - Some methods to adjust pose can be quite challenging.
 - Introducing a new physics engine can lead to conflicts here.

The alternative, approach would be to cycle through:
- disable physics simulation of [simulated body](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/interactivity/physics/nvidia-physx/simulated-bodies/),
- Use `TransformBus::Events::SetWorldTM` to change location,
- enable simulation of [simulated body](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/interactivity/physics/nvidia-physx/simulated-bodies/).

The velocity (twist) can be applied using `RigidBodyRequestBus::SetLinearVelocity` and  `RigidBodyRequestBus::SetAngularVelocity`.
It will be effective against Simulated PhysX Rigid Body and Kinematic PhysX Rigid Body and should give a warning if it called against 
unsupported type.

The acceleration can be applied using `RigidBodyRequestBus::ApplyLinearImpulse` w.r.t object's mass.
It will be effective against Simulated PhysX Rigid Body and should give a warning if it is called against 
unsupported type.

> **Important :** Currently ROS2 Gem is heavily dependant on PhysX5 (due to SDF importer). The decoupling of those needs to be done in the future.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should consider decoupling SDF importer from ROS 2 Gem first?

Reviewer 2: A separate RFC should be created for this part, marking as resolved for now, as it should not block this RFC.

## DeleteEntity service
 
Despawn previously spawned entity

Service definition [DeleteEntity.srv](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/srv/DeleteEntity.srv)
```
# Remove an entity (a robot, other object) from the simulation

Entity entity                         # Entity identified by its unique name with a namespace,
                                      # as returned by SpawnEntity or GetEntities.

---

Result result
```

The O3DE entity ID and their spawn ticket ID will be discovered by `SimulationInfoComponentRequestBus`.
Next the component `ROS 2 Entity manager` will be asked to despawn and remove the corresponding spawn ticket.

> **Important:** This mechanism will now allow to delete of entities that are part of the level prefab (e.g., prefab instantiated in Editor).

Reviewer 2: This sentence rise the question how such entities can be identified, i.e. how parts of the level will be registered in the `ROS 2 Entity manager` - this part should be answered in the text.

## GetEntityBounds service

Returns bounds of the spawned entity.

Service definition [GetEntityBounds.srv](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/srv/GetEntityBounds.srv)
```
# Get geometrical bounds for entity. This feature is available if GetSimulatorFeatures includes ENTITY_BOUNDS feature.

Entity entity                         # Entity identified by its unique name as returned by GetEntities / SpawnEntity.

---

Result result
Bounds bounds  
```

The bounds for particular entities will be obtained by calling `SimulationInfoComponentRequestBus`.

## GetEntityInfo service

> Returns tags and category of the spawned entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns category, description and tags for spawned entity.
```

Service definition [GetEntityInfo.srv](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/srv/GetEntityInfo.srv):
```
# Get type and other information about an entity.

Entity entity                         # Entity identified by its unique name as returned by GetEntities / SpawnEntity.

---

Result result
EntityInfo info                       # Only valid if result.result_code is OK.
```
where [EntityInfo.msg](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/msg/EntityInfo.msg):
```
# Entity type and additional information

uint8 category              # Major category for the entity. Extra entity type distinction can be made through tags.
                            # See EntityCategories for defined category values.
string description          # optional: verbose, human-readable description of the entity.
string[] tags               # optional: tags which are useful for filtering and categorizing entities further.
```

> This information will be obtained from `SimulationInfoComponentRequestBus`.

Reviewer 2: As explained earlier, I miss the clear information on how we would treat the multi-entity structure. Would we return `tag` information of the root only? I assume yes.

## GetNamedPoses service

Simulation expert using O3DE Editor can add entity with component from ROS2 gem called `Named Pose Editor Component`.
This component will require `TransformService` and dependent services `BoxShapeService` and `SphereShapeService`
The  `Named Pose Component` will contain two configurable fields called `description` and `tags`.
During creation of game component (`CreateGameEntity`) the TagComponent from LmbrCentral gem will be created and fed with list of tags. 
Creating the TagComponent is useful to make this feature compatible with O3DE's tag system.

> The box or sphere shape component allows to definition of optional boundaries around the named pose.

Reviewer 2: The usage of  `BoxShapeService` or `SphereShapeService` is not justified in the text. Why would we need a bounding box/sphere of the pose? it is not justified by the service definition either. I guess this text was intended for the next paragraph of the RFC

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/RobotecAI/sig-simulation/pull/2

```
where: [TagsFilter.msg](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/msg/TagsFilter.msg),
[NamedPose.msg](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/msg/NamedPose.msg):
```
# A named pose defined in the simulation for certain purposes such as spawning.

string name                               # Unique name.
string description                        # Description for the user, e.g. "near the charging station".
string[] tags                             # Optional tags which can be used to determine the named pose
                                          # purpose, for example: "spawn", "parking", "navigation_goal",
                                          # as well as fitting entity types e.g. "drone", "turtlebot3".
geometry_msgs/Pose pose                   # Pose relative to world, which can be used with SpawnEntity.srv.
```

During simulation entities with `Named Pose Component` will be discovered (e.g., using designated request bus or o3de tag system),
the aggregation will be filtered and returned to the caller. 

> **Important** Since O3DE does not require those names to be unique, the ROS 2 gem needs to skip or extend the names of duplicates.

Reviewer 2: `name` parameter is assumed to be _unique_; O3DE should register the first `NamedPose` component with a given name and throw a warning/error when the second one is discovered. There is no need to extend the names (this would modify the names)

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/RobotecAI/sig-simulation/pull/2

The transition from PLAYING to PAUSED will ask the default physics scene to be disabled. 
It will stop movement of all PhysX articulations, rigid bodies (both kinematic and simulated), and characters, but some animations will be played.
The transition from PLAYING to QUITTING will simply call:
```cpp
 int* ptr = nullptr;
 *ptr= 99;
```
alternatively:
```cpp
#pragma clang diagnostic ignored "-Winfinite-recursion"
auto exit = [&]() { exit(); }; exit();
```

The ROS 2 Simulator manager will contain the state of the simulation and perform necessary transitions.

## GetSimulationState service

Allows ROS 2 user to get the current state of the simulation.

Service definition [GetSimulationState.srv](https://github.com/adamdbrw/simulation_interfaces/blob/simulation_interfaces/srv/GetSimulationState.srv)

```
# Gets the simulation state (paused, playing, stopped)

---

SimulationState state                      # Current state of the simulation.

Result result
```
The ROS 2 Simulator manager will return current state.
If transition is in progress (e.g. reloading level or despawning), the old state will be returned.

> ## Retired components in ROS 2 Gem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Deprecated components in ROS 2 Gem
```

During this effort some components will be retired, and some moved outside of scope of supported and canonical repos.

### ROS2SpawnerComponent

> The ROS2Spawner component will be retired and hidden away from users with the CMake variable.

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to hide it behind the variable? Can't we detect if a ROS package is available inside of cmake? Or use `ROS_DISTRO` environment variable?

Reviewer: I guess we would simply like to decide, whether we want to build with it or not.

Reviewer 2: I believe hiding is a bit harsh. The standard procedure along any implementation I know is to deprecate the API/interface/whatever and let people know about it while letting them use it for some time. 

I would propose is to first
1. Check whether `gazebo_msgs` package is available in the cmake
2. (i) compile a full-blown spawner or (ii) compile an empty component with the same name (and UUID) based on the `gazebo_msgs` availability
3. (i) throw a deprecation warning for users using the spawner component or (ii) throw an information about missing `gazebo_msgs` for users using the old spawner based on the `gazebo_msgs` availability

The feature can be hidden (or even removed) one release later.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/RobotecAI/sig-simulation/pull/2 
@PawelLiberadzki please have a look

This component can co-exist with managers for Simulation Interfaces, but ROS 2 package that the ROS2Spawner requires will be removed from upcoming ROS 2 distribution (Kilted Kaiju).
The said package (`gazebo_msgs`) will be replaced by `simulation_interfaces`.
The component will be retired (instead of completely removed from the codebase) to make the transition to Simulation interfaces an easier experience.

> However, using ROS2Spawner component will require a few extra steps (after the EOL of the gazebo_msgs package):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, using ROS2Spawner component will require a few extra steps (after the EOL of the `gazebo_msgs` package):
```

- cloning and building the latest [gazebo_ros_pkgs/gazebo_msgs](https://github.com/ros-simulation/gazebo_ros_pkgs/tree/3.9.0/gazebo_msgs)
- sourcing custom workspace
- setting CMake flag

> - building ROS2 gem from source.

Reviewer 2: Please correct me if I am wrong, but ROS 2 Gem is always built from source.

Author: You are right. But there is a slight possibility that package like `ros-FUTUREDISTRO-o3de-editor` will be created.

Reviewer 2: If so, it will happen after this RFC.

I will change to resolved to unblock this RFC just in case.

- This should also provide detailed information on compatibility with different hardware platforms. -->

### What are the advantages of the feature?
<!-- - Explain the advantages for someone to use this feature -->
 - Leading standardization of simulation in the robotics domain,
 - easier usage of O3DE in robotics and ML pipelines,
 - improve the testability of the ROS 2 features,
 - adjustments to EOL of `gazebo_msgs`

### What are the disadvantages of the feature?
<!-- - Explain any disadvantages for someone to use this feature -->
Significant increase in code base size for ROS2 Gem.

### How will this be implemented or integrated into the O3DE environment?
<!-- - Explain how this will be integrated within codebase of O3DE and any special library or technical stack requirements. -->
It was explained in great detail in the section [ROS 2 API](#ros-2-api).

### Are there any alternatives to this feature?
<!-- - Provide any other designs that have been considered. Explain what the impact might be to not doing this.
- If there is any prior art or approaches with other frameworks in the same domain, explain how they may have solved this problem or implemented this feature. -->

> The effort needs to be taken to adjust the existing code to the eprecation of Gazebo Classic and `gazebo_msgs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The effort needs to be taken to adjust the existing code to the deprecation of Gazebo Classic and `gazebo_msgs`.
```

uint8 QUITTING     = 3                 # Closing the simulator application. Switching from PLAYING or PAUSED states
                                       # is expected to stop the simulation first, and then exit.
                                       # Simulation interfaces will become unavailable after quitting.
                                       # Running simulation application is outside of the simulation interfaces as
                                       # there is no service to handle the call when the simulator is not up.

uint8 state
```

The transition from PLAYING to STOPPED will trigger level reloading. That will take a while to complete. \
The transition from PLAYING to PAUSED will ask the default physics scene to be disabled. 
It will stop movement of all PhysX articulations, rigid bodies (both kinematic and simulated), and characters, but some animations will be played.
The transition from PLAYING to QUITTING will simply call:
```cpp
 int* ptr = nullptr;
 *ptr= 99;
```
alternatively:
```cpp
#pragma clang diagnostic ignored "-Winfinite-recursion"

> auto exit = [&]() { exit(); }; exit();

Reviewer: Is there no way to close simulation in a bit more clean way? Or is this approach used elsewhere or is suggested?
